After the shooting in Uvalde, Texas, @nytopinion reached out to students across the U.S. to find out how they were affected by it and what, if anything, would help them feel safer at school.
Rebekah Boitey, who recently finished 11th grade at Jack Britt High in Fayetteville, N.C., wrote: “I ache for change. students are being killed in classrooms that are supposed to prepare them for a future. I am angered that lawmakers continue to allow these shootings to happen, and that some even make it easier for them to occur. Adults have abandoned us, the responsibility of protecting ourselves has been passed on to us. We’re told to run in a zigzag pattern to avoid getting shot, and survivors are praised for having the ingenuity to cover themselves with their classmate’s blood. I can’t simply accept this as the way things must be.”
She continued, “Like me, hundreds of students took the opportunity to have their voices heard.”

Thousands of protesters gathered in Washington, D.C., and in cities across the country on Saturday to demonstrate against gun violence.
With their signs, chants and mere presence, protesters condemned the recent spate of mass shootings in the United States and renewed a call for federal legislation to limit the use of the military-style weapons.
Organized by March for Our Lives,after the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, , killed 17 and wounded 17.
This time, shootings last month that left 10 Black people dead in a Buffalo supermarket and killed 19 schoolchildren and two teachers at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, Texas.

students are demanding adults take action on gun violence: They are walking out of schools, leading marches and protesting on the steps of buildings. They want this time to be different.
The demands are nationwide: In New York, demonstrators of all ages marched across the Brooklyn Bridge on Thursday to highlight gun violence awareness month. In places like Texas, Oregon and beyond, middle-schoolers organized protests against gun violence by marching out of classrooms. In Los Angeles, high school students rallied on the steps of City Hall carrying signs that read, “School is for learning, not lockdowns” and “Protect our lives.”
students and teenagers have long spoken out against school shootings and called on political leaders to make change and strengthen gun laws. But this has come after a series of mass shootings this year, including a shooting at an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas, that killed 21 people, including 19 students and two teachers. There have been at least 264 mass shootings (defined as a shooting in which four or more people were killed or injured) , according to The Gun Violence Archive, a nonprofit organization.
On Saturday, students plan to continue making their voices heard by joining in more than 300 marches in cities for Our Lives. In 2018 this student-led movement brought together hundreds of thousands of people to streets across the globe to call for action on gun violence after the deadly school shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.

Dr. Roy Guerrero, a pediatrician in Uvalde, Texas, described to members of Congress on Wednesday the horrors he saw two weeks ago in the city’s emergency room as he treated wounded and dying students after a gunman killed 21 people in an elementary school classroom.
Dr. Guerrero said he rushed to Uvalde Memorial on May 24 and found parents already outside the building, yelling their children’s names, sobbing and begging for information. vote on a package of gun control measures, including legislation that would prohibit the sale of semiautomatic rifles to people under the age of 21. It would also ban the sale of magazines that hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition. 

Miah Cerrillo, a fourth-grade student in Uvalde, Texas, who smeared blood from a dead classmate on herself to avoid being targeted by the gunman who killed 19 students and two teachers in her classroom, described the nightmarish attack 
Miah, 11, was among several who testified at the House Oversight Committee’s hearing on gun violence, including the parents of Lexi Rubio, a student who was killed during the attack;  the sole pediatrician in the small town of Uvalde and an alumnus of Robb Elementary; Zeneta Everhart, whose son was injured during the racist gun attack in Buffalo; and a handful of expert witnesses who answered questions from lawmakers.
In the pre-recorded video, Miah recounted in vivid detail what happened when the gunman entered her classroom and was asked what she wanted to come from the mass shooting.
“To have security,” . She shook her head when she was asked if she felt safe at school. “I don’t want it to happen again,” she said.
Miah’s father, who appeared at the hearing in person on his daughter’s behalf, said that Miah had changed since the shooting. He pleaded for some kind of change to protect students in school.
The emotional testimony unfolded hours before the House was scheduled to vote on a package of gun control measures, including legislation that would prohibit the sale of semiautomatic rifles to people under the age of 21 and would ban the sale of magazines that hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition. The bills are all but certain to go nowhere in the evenly divided Senate, where solid Republican opposition means that they cannot draw the 60 votes needed to break through a filibuster.

 in Washington by passing new federal gun safety measures. He called on Congress to stop the sale of assault-style weapons, expand background checks and pass “red flag” laws after last month’s massacres in Texas and New York.
“We need to ban assault weapons and high capacity magazines,” “And if we can’t ban assault weapons, then we should raise the age to purchase them from 18 to 21, strengthen the background checks.”
He also called on Congress to enact safe storage laws, that protects gun manufacturers from liability. The president said the measures were “not about taking away anyone’s guns.” Delivering his address from the Cross Hall, which was lined with candles in honor of the victims of gun violence, Biden described the deep grief that he experienced when he and his wife talked with the families of those killed in the two mass shootings.
“At both places, we spent hours with hundreds of family members, who were broken, whose lives will never be the same,” he said. 

Most owners of what calls “military-style assault weapons” would be required to turn over their firearms to a government buyback program under legislation introduced on Monday, which would tighten the country’s already stringent control of firearms.
The Canadian government also announced new regulations that will ban the sale, purchase, importation or transfer of handguns. “We are capping the number of handguns in this country,” Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said.
The handgun sales ban and the proposed assault weapons law are the latest in a series of steps Trudeau has taken to restrict firearms since 22 people were killed by a gunman in 2020 , in the deadliest rampage in the country’s history. The legislation, which could apply to tens of thousands of firearms, is expected to pass.
Trudeau’s program echoes a semiautomatic weapons ban and buyback program enacted  in 2019, after a lone gunman stormed two mosques, killing 51 people and injuring dozens of others 

 Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, Texas, on Sunday for about 20 minutes, where they stopped in front of the victims
While in Texas, the first couple are also set to visit with religious leaders and families of the 19 students and two teachers gunned down last week
Later in the day, the Bidens attended Mass at Sacred Heart Catholic Church. 

mass shootings. On May 14, a gunman killed 10 people in a supermarket in Buffalo. On Tuesday, 19 children and two adults were killed in Uvalde, Texas. It was the deadliest shooting at an elementary school since the 2012 massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary.
In 2017, after a gunman killed 26 people in a Texas church, Nicholas Kristof, a former @nytopinion columnist, outlined how to reduce deadly shootings in America. In the years since, @nytopinion has regularly updated the piece — sometimes weekly — because, tragically, the issue is still relevant, and it will remain so until America tightens its gun safety policies.

There is no hard data on gun ownership . This household gun ownership proxy was created by taking a weighted average of the percentage of suicides committed with a firearm — a widely used proxy for firearm ownership — and the hunting license rate in ​each state. ​

19 students and two teachers — were killed by a gunman at Robb Elementary School on Tuesday in Uvalde, Texas, in the country’s deadliest school shooting in a decade.
Most of the victims were fourth graders in two adjoining classrooms. The city released the names of the victims on Friday.
Alexandria Aniyah Rubio, 10, was known as Lexi and was an honor student at Robb Elementary School , dreamed of being a lawyer and was “the student every teacher wants,” said her mother, Kimberly Rubio. Maite Yuleana Rodriguez, 10.

In Uvalde, Texas, some of the worst fears about the police response to the school shooting rampage were confirmed on Friday when state law enforcement officials acknowledged that more than an hour elapsed between when the shooting began and when the police entered the classroom where students were trapped.
In an emotional and at times tense news conference, Steven McCraw, the director of the Texas Department of Public Safety, gave the most detailed accounting of the shooting yet, diverging in substantial ways from the original timeline given by officials.
Most of the time the gunman was at the school, McCraw explained, he was inside the classrooms where nearly all of the killing took place, while as many as 19 police officers waited outside in the school hallway. Multiple people in the classrooms, including at least two students, called 911 over that horrifying stretch, begging for the police to help. But, apparently believing that the suspect had barricaded himself in a classroom and that “there were no students at risk,” the police did not enter the classroom until 12:50 p.m., 78 minutes after the gunman walked inside.
“From the benefit of hindsight where I’m sitting now, of course it was not the right decision,” McCraw said. “It was the wrong decision. Period.”

 protest gun violence and the recent massacre of 19 students and two teachers in Uvalde, Texas.
Beto O’Rourke (photo one), a former representative who is running for governor of Texas, spoke during the protest outside the George R. Brown Convention Center where demonstrators carried signs that read “Protect students not guns” and “How many of us have to die?” David Hogg (photo four), a survivor of the 2018 shooting in Parkland, Florida, spoke at the protest too.
 Wayne LaPierre, the head of the N.R.A., opened the convention by calling out “the evil” of the attack in Texas. Then he quickly pivoted to saying that the federal government could not “legislate against evil,” and that President Biden’s gun control proposals would restrict “the fundamental human right of law-abiding Americans to defend themselves.”
