Dyke Day LA is not your average Pride event.
 for an afternoon of picnicking, mingling, cheering on drag performances and a puppy costume competition, and more.
This annual gathering takes a approach to a month typically packed with corporate-sponsored parties, parades and concerts; one organizer of Dyke Day estimated the crowd at about 1,500. Since its first iteration in 2007, it has gone from a scrappy Eastside alternative to the spectacle of West Hollywood’s Pride celebrations to an essential — if unofficial — event on the city’s Pride calendar, open to “dykes of all genders.” (According to the organizers, that means everyone but cisgender men.)
The name asserts that a term once widely taken as a misogynistic and homophobic slur can be seen as a positive, liberating label. This year, though, attendees were split, mostly along generational lines, about whether the word “dyke” suited the moment, when labels like “nonbinary” and “genderqueer” are used to affirm identities that are more fluid.
“‘Dyke’ is not our generation’s name to reclaim,” said Melanie Marx, 31. “I feel like we’ve reclaimed ‘queer,’ and it’s far more inclusive.”
But several people in their 40s, 50s and 60s spoke the word with affection. “I’ve always identified as a dyke,” said Tristan Taormino, 51, a feminist author and sex educator. “To me it’s a politicized identity. It’s not just about who I love and have sex with, but my culture, my point of view,. It’s an absolute reclamation.”

Gay Days, a four-day Pride extravaganza  took on new significance this year.
 Gay Days attracts tens of thousands of LGBTQ visitors each June as well as take part in adult-oriented events, including pool parties, dance nights and drag competitions.
It started in 1991, when a smattering of gay adults  used internet message boards to plan a gathering. 
Gay Days hasn’t always gone smoothly. In the 1990s, soon after the event was established, some religious groups visitors viewed LGBTQ visitors as a moral affront.  “Don’t Say Gay” bill, which the chief executive denounced.
But last weekend, Gay Days participants . Many of them wore red shirts with the words “SAY GAY” on the back, a reference to the recent controversy.

About 1.6 million people. are transgender, and 43% of them are young adults , according to a new report providing the most recent national estimates of this population.
relying on CDC  surveys, estimated that 1.4%  were transgender
These new estimates point to a stark generational shift. Young people increasingly have the language and social acceptance to explore their gender identities, experts said, whereas older adults may feel more constrained. 

More than a half-century after the landmark uprising at the Stonewall Inn in 1969 helped galvanize the fight for gay rights, the annual Pride March has become an event of unapologetic jubilation. This year, 
The parade took place signaled that it might reconsider other liberties, including same-sex marriage.
Revelers on the sidelines and those in the march said that the current state of affairs  required renewed activism to maintain and expand civil rights for people who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender.

 Throughout the march, “Pride has always gone back and forth between these two things: It’s a riot or a celebration,” said Cynthia Nixon, the actress and former candidate  who marched behind the group. 

Pride Marchers ‘Nervous’ After Ruling
Revelers at the annual  Pride March expressed concern about the of gay .

Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida is expected to sign House Bill 1557,  which opponents refer to as the “Don’t Say Gay” bill. 
All of that has obscured the text of the bill itself, which is complex and is about much more than gay rights. It could have far-reaching implications to LGBTQ issues.
Language in the bill prohibits not only “instruction” around gender identity and sexual orientation, but also “discussion” of these topics. “instruction” could mean eliminating books in the with LGBTQ characters or historical figures. No “discussion” is a broad phrase and could mean that gay shouldn’t talk about  .


