The fall of Roe v. Wade has pushed the U.S. into turbulence that feels all too familiar to those who lived through the pre-Roe era. We spoke to women who remember a time without Roe — and the early years after the 1973 ruling.
Catherine Starr told The New York Times in an interview that she had become pregnant when she was 16, and, without the option of a safe, legal abortion, she gave her baby up for adoption. She was 17 when she attended her first demonstration to push for abortion rights outside City Hall in St. Louis. It was May 24, 1973, just months after the Supreme Court ruled on Roe v. Wade. Starr went to the rally because she “wanted to be able to make sure that the next little girl that gets pregnant has an option,” she said.
The same year that Roe was decided, our photographer William E. Sauro documented scenes inside Women's Medical Services (second and fourth photo), an abortion clinic on Walnut Street in downtown Philadelphia, and our photographer Librado Romero took pictures of workers inside the Women’s National Abortion Action Coalition office in New York (third photo).
In 1981, our photographer John Sotomayor captured abortion rights activists dancing at a demonstration at Liberty and Church Streets in Manhattan to commemorate the eighth anniversary of the Supreme Court’s decision.
Tap the link in our bio to read more about the women who were on the front lines of the abortion rights movement before Roe was the law and shortly after the ruling. Photos by John Sotomayor/The New York Times, William E. Sauro/The New York Times and Librado Romero/The New York Times #roevwade #abortion #nytarchives

Illinois may stand alone as an island of abortion access for a swath of the Midwest and the South as neighboring states have banned, or are moving to ban, the procedure.
Four of Illinois’s neighbors immediately banned abortion after the Supreme Court’s decision on Friday, and two others — Ohio and Tennessee — now restrict the procedure to no more than six weeks into a pregnancy.
There are 29 abortion providers in Illinois, but as clinics in surrounding states stop providing abortions or close altogether, these providers say they may not be able to meet the demand.
Tap the link in our bio to read more about how the overturning of Roe v. Wade might affect abortion access in Illinois.

After the overturning of Roe v. Wade, many women are wondering how to reorder their lives after the constitutional right to abortion was erased.
Some women, especially those who are conservative Christians, reveled in the decision, believing it to be a moral and legal victory. But a poll released on Sunday showed that a majority of women in the U.S. — 67% — opposed the Supreme Court’s ruling, and 52% of Americans said it was a step backward for the nation.
In dozens of interviews this week, American women who support abortion rights recalled the moment when they heard that Roe had been overturned, and the waves of shock and fury that came after. They reflected on how access to legal abortion had quietly undergirded their personal decisions, even if they had never sought one themselves. They worried that the progress many women have made since abortion was legalized — in education, in the workplace and in the culture — would be halted.
And they reconsidered their own plans and those of their children, including whether they should live, work or attend colleges in states where abortion has been banned; how they could help other women with unwanted pregnancies; and whether they would ever recover the constitutional right to receive a safe abortion, a guarantee that tens of millions of women have known their entire lives.
Read more from women on how their lives have been affected by the Supreme Court. Photos by @ninarobinsonphoto @kendrickbrinson @cornwhizzle

After the Supreme Court’s ruling on Friday that ended federal abortion rights, several companies released statements reaffirming their commitment to helping employees gain access to health care services they may not be able to obtain in their state.
Tap the link in our bio to read what companies have said about assisting employees who can’t get reproductive health care close to home.
After the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade on Friday, eliminating the constitutional right to abortion, demonstrators and activists flocked to the courthouse. An outpouring of outrage and grief from some collided with expressions of joy and relief from others.
Some protesters linked arms with their mouths taped shut, posing silently with signs expressing anger about the decision. Still others cheered the decision, some wearing matching red shirts that read “The Pro-Life Generation Votes” and rallying together in a separate group to commemorate the ruling.
By the afternoon, as more people learned of the decision, a crowd overwhelmingly in favor of abortion rights had coalesced around the court’s front steps, chanting slogans aimed at the court’s conservative majority.
Tap the link in our bio to follow our live updates on reactions to the court's ruling. Photos by

The Supreme Court on Friday overruled Roe v. Wade, eliminating the constitutional right to abortion after almost 50 years in a decision that will transform American life, reshape the nation’s politics and lead to all but total bans on the procedure in about half of the states.
The ruling will test the legitimacy of the court and vindicate a decades-long Republican project of installing conservative justices prepared to reject the precedent, which had been repeatedly reaffirmed by earlier courts. It will also be one of the signal legacies of President Donald J. Trump, who vowed to name justices who would overrule Roe. All three of his appointees were in the majority in the 6-to-3 ruling.
The decision, which echoed a leaked draft opinion published by Politico in early May, will result in a starkly divided country in which abortion is severely restricted or forbidden in many red states but remains freely available in most blue ones.
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. voted with the majority but said he would have taken “a more measured course,” stopping short of overruling Roe outright. The court’s three liberal members dissented.
Tap the link in our bio for our live coverage on the Supreme Court decision.

Every year, hundreds of thousands of women turn to Google to find abortion services. Many of those searches lead to paid ads for local “women’s clinics,” whose goal is to try to change their minds.
The New York Times found dozens of websites that mimic the look and feel of abortion provider sites, and traced them to Human Coalition, an anti-abortion group in Texas that is quietly orchestrating a national effort to end abortion. Using local numbers that route to anti-abortion call centers and the promise of free ultrasounds, the organization seeks to intercept newly pregnant women and persuade them to keep their babies.
As its reach has widened, Human Coalition has earned lucrative government contracts to provide alternatives to abortion. Nearly half of Human Coalition’s funding now comes from Republican-led states. At the same time, its lobbying arm shapes policy in states that are quickly moving to restrict or outlaw the procedure, and helped push through S.B. 8, the strict new law in Texas.
With a decision on Roe v. Wade looming, the abortion landscape across the U.S. is set to be fundamentally altered — and organizations like Human Coalition are planning to seize the moment to expand.
Tap the link in our bio to read more about this anti-abortion center. Story by Emma Cott, @badboys2meninblackhawkdown, @rslieber, @alizauf, @nai.morgan, @leslyedavis, @oradekorn and @raywhitehouse.

The Planned Parenthood clinic in Fort Myers, Florida, has seen an increase in abortion patients from Texas, while trying to keep up with increasingly severe restrictions in its own state.
The center has seen a steady influx of patients from Texas since September, when a ban on all but the earliest abortions took effect there, and from other states that have tightened access to the procedure over the past year. It is also adjusting to a waiting period that took effect in Florida in April after years of litigation, requiring patients seeking an abortion to have an ultrasound and then return at least 24 hours later for the procedure. And a new state law banning most abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy is set to take effect July 1, although Planned Parenthood and other abortion providers in the state have sued to try to block it.
On top of those changes, the Supreme Court is poised to issue a ruling that could overturn Roe v. Wade, the 1973 ruling legalizing abortion throughout the U.S. Florida is not one of the 13 states with so-called trigger laws, which would quickly ban nearly all abortions if Roe was overturned. But several nearby states have such laws, and the Florida legislature could enact more restrictions.
Most patients in Florida get medication abortions, which involve taking two different drugs, 24 to 48 hours apart, and are authorized for the first 10 weeks of pregnancy. The center also provides surgical abortions generally up until about 24 weeks of pregnancy — at least until the new law takes effect. It also provides pelvic and breast exams, different types of contraception, testing and treatment for sexually transmitted diseases, and other reproductive health care.

A Florida law banning abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy violates privacy protections in the State Constitution, a state judge ruled on Thursday, a day before the new restrictions were to take effect.
Judge John Cooper of the Second Judicial Circuit Court in Tallahassee ruled from the bench that the law, signed by Gov. Ron DeSantis in April, will not be enforced for now. Florida currently allows abortions until 24 weeks, making the state a refuge for women seeking the procedure from across Southeastern states with tighter restrictions.
Judge Cooper said he would issue a temporary statewide injunction. It will not be binding until he signs a written order, something the judge said would not happen on Thursday. The ban takes effect at midnight.
The state is expected to appeal Judge Cooper’s ruling. The issue will most likely end up before the Florida Supreme Court, which in the past has cited a privacy amendment that voters wrote into the State Constitution in 1980 to block other abortion restrictions from taking effect. But DeSantis has reshaped the court following several retirements and made it much more conservative. He appointed three of the court’s seven justices. The other four justices were also appointed by Republican governors.
This is a developing story. Read the latest at the link in our bio.

Two days after the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade, a 27-year-old woman delivered her fourth child. The woman, who asked to be identified by her first initial, T., had fled domestic abuse and been denied an abortion. Her son is among the first of many babies expected in a post-Roe Texas.
One in 10 people of reproductive age in America live in Texas, which will soon outlaw almost all abortions. The state is one of the most dangerous in the nation to have a baby, with high maternal and infant mortality rates. Texas’ conservative leadership has spent decades restricting abortion access while cutting social spending and publicly funded health care. Now, even some anti-abortion advocates say their state is woefully unprepared for a likely surge in births among poor women.
Some anti-abortion crisis pregnancy centers have come under scrutiny for misleading or misinforming women seeking abortion care. “We do want to limit abortions,” said Aubrey Schlackman, the founder of Blue Haven Ranch, a Christian nonprofit that is providing housing and other assistance for T.’s family. “But we personally weren’t ready to handle an influx, and I know so many of the other nonprofits that we work with aren’t ready for that, either.” Schlackman accompanied T. to a birthing center to provide support when she went into labor, and Blue Haven supporters purchased everything on T.’s baby registry. The nonprofit will offer assistance for at least another year.
T. has a message for Texas legislators: “You don’t know what is best for any family. You didn’t protect me or my kids. I protect my kids. Only a mom can know what is best for herself and her family. And if you’re going to force women to have all of these babies that they are not equipped to have, then you need to provide support for women and their children after the babies are born.”
Tap the link in our bio for a deeper look into the post-Roe landscape that expecting mothers must navigate. Photos by @erinschaff