The physical scars of our warming planet are everywhere — from rising sea waters to melting glaciers and charred forests. But climate change is also inflicting a growing, unseen toll on mental health.
In February, a major new study highlighted the mental health effects of climate change for the first time, finding that anxiety and stress from a changing climate were likely to increase in coming years.
In addition to those who have lost their homes to floods and megafires, millions have endured record-breaking heat waves. The crisis also hits home in subtle, personal ways — withered gardens, receding lakeshores and quiet walks without the birdsong that once accompanied them.
To understand what the effects of climate change feel like in the U.S. today, The New York Times heard from hundreds of people. In cities already confronting the long-term effects of a warming planet, and in drought-scarred ranches and rangeland, Americans are trying to cope with the strain of an increasingly precarious future. “​​This is becoming a No. 1 threat to mental health,” said Britt Wray, a Stanford University researcher and author of “Generation Dread,” a forthcoming book about grappling with climate distress.
Tap the link in our bio to read more about how climate change is affecting mental health. Video by Sarah Kerr, @noahswthroop, @jackhealynyt, Aidan Gardiner and Rebecca Lieberman

A winter storm blew across the Northeast overnight on Friday, dropping the first significant snowfall of the winter on New York City and creating treacherous conditions for the morning commute.
Snow fell heavily in the pre-dawn hours in the New York region and parts of New England, causing flight delays and cancellations at airports and slowing traffic and train service. New York City’s schools remained open, but the storm prompted school closings and delays across the region.
At least five inches of snow blanketed the city and surrounding areas. By 7 a.m., Central Park in Manhattan had received 5.5 inches of snow and La Guardia Airport in Queens had 8.4 inches, according to the National Weather Service.
Tap the link in our bio to read more. Photos by @gjvigliotti

A string of unseasonably powerful storms and tornadoes swept across five states on Friday night and early Saturday morning. Dozens of people were feared dead, and communities across the Midwest and South were digging through rubble on Saturday morning.
Officials said that there were “confirmed fatalities” after a roof collapsed at an Amazon warehouse in Illinois, that three had died in Tennessee and two in Arkansas, one at anursing home and one at a Dollar General store. Kentucky’s governor said that at least 70 had been killed in a tornado’s path of over 200 miles, and that the state’s death toll could increase to more than 100.
“This has been the most devastating tornado event in our state’s history,” Gov. Andy Beshear of Kentucky said in a news briefing. “The level of devastation is unlike anything I have ever seen.”
The storms — dark and immense funnel clouds that roared across the nighttime landscape — obliterated homes, churches and businesses, leaving unearthly scenes of devastation. In Mayfield, Ky., which was among the hardest-hit communities, the center of town had become a perilous maze of downed utility lines, dangling tree limbs and scattered debris.
This is a developing story. Tap the link in our bio for the latest. Photos by Christian Gooden/St. Louis Post-Dispatch, via @apnews, @willdeshazer, Brett Carlsen/Getty Images, @neeta.satam, Gunnar Word/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

The Norwegian archipelago of Svalbard is “perhaps the closest thing we have to a ticking clock,” the photographer Marcus Westberg writes for @nytimestravel.
Viewed from the sea, Svalbard seems to be the very epitome of wilderness: a vast expanse of largely untouched water, ice and islands, free from human habitation and infrastructure, aside from the occasional passing boat.
Unfortunately, climate change all but guarantees an eventual (and probably fairly imminent) collapse of what is an exceptionally fragile ecosystem, Westberg writes.
The 29 national parks, as well as other protected areas that cover two-thirds of the Svalbard archipelago, can protect its wild inhabitants from hunting and pollution, but not from increasing water and air temperatures. Every year brings further news of ever-shrinking glaciers and reduced ice cover — ice upon which the 3,000 polar bears who live in the Svalbard archipelago and Barents Sea depend for their survival.
Tourism, as is so often the case, is simultaneously part of the problem and part of the solution.
Tap the link in our bio to read the full story. Photos and text by @marcuswestbergphotography

Yes, summers are getting hotter.
This animating chart, originally published in 2017, shows how summer temperatures have become hotter and more extreme in recent decades. It is based on data from James Hansen, a retired NASA climate scientist and professor at Columbia University. To create the curves, Hansen and two colleagues compared actual summer temperatures across the world for each decade since the 1980s to a fixed baseline average.
During their base period, 1951 to 1980, about a third of local summer temperatures across the Northern Hemisphere were in a “near average” or normal range. A third were considered cold, a third were hot, and only a few values could be found at the extremes. Since then, summer temperatures have shifted drastically, the researchers found. Between 2005 and 2015, two-thirds of temperatures were in the hot category, and nearly 15% could be considered “extremely hot.”
Tap the link in our bio to read more about extreme heat in the U.S.

Likening climate change to a bomb moments from exploding, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain kicked off the United Nations’ COP26 in Glasgow on Monday with an urgent call for action even as he acknowledged the challenges ahead.
“The tragedy is that this is not a movie and the doomsday device is real,” he said. “Humanity has long since run down the clock on climate change. It is one minute to midnight on that doomsday clock, and we need to act now.”
Underscoring the urgency of the moment, with leaders of more than 120 countries facing pressure to immediately curb greenhouse gas emissions, the United Nations secretary general, António Guterres, said that the effects of a warming planet were already being felt “from the ocean depths to the mountaintops.”
“Sea level rise has doubled from 30 years ago,” he said. Oceans are hotter than ever, parts of the Amazon rainforest emit more carbon than they absorb, and in the last decade about four billion people were affected by events related to the changing climate.
The conference’s aim is to prevent the average global temperature from rising more than 1.5 degrees Celsius compared with levels before the Industrial Revolution. That is the threshold beyond which scientists say the dangers of global warming — such as deadly heat waves, water shortages, crop failures and ecosystem collapse — grow immensely.
Tap the link in our bio for live coverage of COP26.

More than six inches of rain fell over Yosemite National Park in California over a 36-hour period, causing Yosemite Falls to surge Tuesday after a dry and drought-stricken summer.
“We had quite a storm,” the park said in an Instagram post.
Although the park said it did not have direct measurements, it said that “sensors suggest a few feet of snow fell at the higher elevations,” and that the snow level for much of the storm “was high,” which caused rivers and creeks “to rise substantially.” The Merced River at the Pohono Bridge rose 8.5 feet, the park said, noting it was 1.5 feet below flood stage.
At 2,425 feet high, Yosemite Falls is the tallest waterfall in North America. Its peak flow usually occurs in May, after most of the park’s snow melts, but by August it often slows to a trickle or is completely dry. Storms in the late fall can help restore the falls.
The rainfall at Yosemite was the result of two storms that converged in the Bay Area, bringing floods, high winds and some much-needed rain to California, which has wrestled with large wildfires and severe drought conditions that have been brought on by climate change.
Tap the link in our bio to learn more about the return of Yosemite Falls.

Three years after Greta Thunberg’s strike against climate change began, adults are failing children on a global scale.⁣
"Last week, some of the world’s leading climate change scientists confirmed that humans are making irreversible changes to our planet and extreme weather will only become more severe,” write @gretathunberg, Adriana Calderón, Farzana Faruk Jhumu and Eric Njuguna, youth climate activists from Sweden, Mexico, Bangladesh and Kenya. “This news is a 'code red for humanity,' said the United Nations secretary general. It is — but young people like us have been sounding this alarm for years. You just haven’t listened." ⁣
A new UNICEF analysis will be released on Friday, the three year anniversary of Thunberg’s lone protest outside the Swedish Parliament, providing a comprehensive view of where and how this crisis affects children. In the analysis, researchers found that nearly half the kids in the world — a billion children — face “extremely high risk” because of climate change. ⁣
"The fundamental goal of the adults in any society is to protect their young and do everything they can to leave a better world than the one they inherited," write the youth climate activists. "The current generation of adults, and those that came before, are failing at a global scale." ⁣
Tap the link in our bio to read the full essay. Photo by

For weeks, the wildfires in Northern California — which have so far burned more than 1.3 million acres of land — have mostly skipped across sparsely populated areas and have not required mass evacuations.⁣
But the Caldor fire, which began east of Sacramento over the weekend, has changed that. As of Wednesday evening, the uncontained blaze had forced about 23,000 residents of El Dorado County to leave their homes, the governor’s office reported. Nearly a third of those evacuations were confirmed on Wednesday in a space of less than six hours.
The overall statewide evacuation figure stood at more than 35,000 people as of Wednesday night. That included more than 7,000 residents who had fled the Dixie fire, the second-largest blaze in California’s recorded history. ⁣
The Dixie fire is one of at least six large blazes in Northern California and has so far burned more than 662,000 acres over four counties — Butte, Plumas, Lassen and Tehama — since it emerged in mid-July. It was 35% contained on Wednesday, up from 31% a day earlier.⁣
But the wildfires burning in Northern California are affecting more people than simply those forced to evacuate. On Thursday, air pollution was projected to remain at unhealthy levels — above 150 on the air quality index — in Sacramento and other cities near the blaze.⁣
Tap the link in our bio for the latest from the fires in the West. Photos from the Dixie fire by @chrismatography, and photos from the Caldor fire by @maxwhittaker

This Greek island is the new epicenter of Europe’s summer of calamity.
Fires on Evia, Greece’s second largest island, have destroyed 120,000 acres of forest, razed homes and displaced hundreds of people. They have brought assistance from more than 20 countries and been declared “a natural disaster of unprecedented dimensions” by the Greek prime minister.
The fires, fueled by a record-breaking heat wave that has touched temperatures of up to 46 degrees Celsius, or 115 degrees Fahrenheit, have caused economic disaster and almost biblical scenes of destruction. But they seem less a random act of God than another inevitable episode of Europe’s extreme weather brought on by climate change.
Virtually no corner of Europe has been untouched by a bewildering array of calamities, whether fire, flood or heat. “It’s not just Greece,” said Vasilis Vathrakoyiannis, a spokesman for the Greek fire service. “It’s the whole European ecosystem.”
The shifting epicenter of natural disaster has now fallen on Evia, a densely wooded island northeast of Athens, once best known for its beekeepers and resin producers, its olive groves and seaside resorts.
Tap the link in our bio to read more about the Greek island Evia. Photos by @eirinivour.

Last month was the hottest June on record in North America.
More than 1,200 daily temperature records were set in the final week alone. But there was an even greater number of daily records set by a different — and maybe more dangerous — measure: overnight temperatures. 1,503 records were broken that same week. The higher nighttime temperatures are part of a global trend fueled by climate change.
The extreme temperatures that scorched the Pacific Northwest in late June led to nearly 200 deaths in Oregon and Washington State as people struggled to keep cool in poorly air-conditioned homes, on the street and in fields and warehouses.
The same “heat dome” effect that enveloped the Northwest — in which hot, dry ground traps heat and accelerates rising temperatures — descended on California and parts of the Southwest this weekend. The temperature in Death Valley reached 130 degrees Fahrenheit, one of the highest temperatures ever recorded on Earth, matching a similar one from August 2020.
Tap the link in our bio to read more about why these record temperatures are so dangerous.

The extraordinary heat wave that scorched the Pacific Northwest last week would almost certainly not have occurred without global warming, an international team of climate researchers said Wednesday.
Temperatures were so extreme — including readings of 116 degrees Fahrenheit in Portland, Oregon, and a Canadian record of 121 in British Columbia — that the researchers had difficulty saying just how rare the heat wave was. But they estimated that in any given year there was only a 0.1 percent chance of such an intense heat wave occurring.
“Although it was a rare event, it would have been virtually impossible without climate change,” said Geert Jan van Oldenborgh of the Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute, who conducted the study with 26 other scientists. Friederike Otto, one of the researchers from Oxford University in England, said, “For heat waves, climate change is an absolute game changer.”
Temperature records for cities and towns in the region were broken, and by a much larger margin than the researchers had ever seen in a heat wave. Perhaps, they said, the climate was passing a threshold to a point where just a relatively small rise in global temperatures could greatly increase the likelihood of a big jump in extreme heat.
“We are worried,” van Oldenborgh said. “We are much less certain about how heat waves behave than we were two weeks ago.”
Tap the link in our bio to read more about last week’s extreme heat and global warming. Photo by @ashponders

This Earth Day, take a minute to learn what we can do to help build a better future for our planet. Through the use of fossil fuels like coal, oil and gas, humans are causing CO2 levels to rise and at an unprecedented rate. This could lead to up to an increase of average global temperatures of 9 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of this century, great disturbances in ecosystems, and millions of people suffering from water scarcity and crop failures.
If we continue down the path we’re on, the planet will keep getting hotter and the effects of climate change will get worse. While the science on climate change is settled, the future is not.
To see an illustrated guide for kids, and everyone else, about climate change — and what we can do about it, tap the link in our bio.