Dyke Day LA is not your average Pride event.
Last weekend, droves of people descended on Sycamore Grove Park in northeast Los Angeles for an afternoon of picnicking, mingling, cheering on drag performances and a puppy costume competition, and more.
This annual gathering takes a homespun approach to a month typically packed with corporate-sponsored parties, parades and concerts; one organizer of Dyke Day estimated the crowd at about 1,500. Since its first iteration in 2007, it has gone from a scrappy Eastside alternative to the spectacle of West Hollywood’s Pride celebrations to an essential — if unofficial — event on the city’s Pride calendar, open to “dykes of all genders.” (According to the organizers, that means everyone but cisgender men.)
The name asserts that a term once widely taken as a misogynistic and homophobic slur can be seen as a positive, liberating label. This year, though, attendees were split, mostly along generational lines, about whether the word “dyke” suited the moment, when labels like “nonbinary” and “genderqueer” are used to affirm identities that are more fluid.
“‘Dyke’ is not our generation’s name to reclaim,” said Melanie Marx, 31. “I feel like we’ve reclaimed ‘queer,’ and it’s far more inclusive.”
But several people in their 40s, 50s and 60s spoke the word with affection. “I’ve always identified as a dyke,” said Tristan Taormino, 51, a feminist author and sex educator. “To me it’s a politicized identity. It’s not just about who I love and have sex with, but my culture, my point of view, my politics. It’s an absolute reclamation.”
Read more from Dyke Day LA at the link in our bio. Photos by @michellegroskopf

Gay Days, a four-day Pride extravaganza at Disney World, took on new significance this year, when Disney was ensnared in a heated cultural debate.
While not a Disney-orchestrated event, Gay Days attracts tens of thousands of LGBTQ visitors each June to the various Disney Parks and nearby hotels to revel in all things Disney, as well as take part in adult-oriented Disney-themed events, including pool parties, dance nights and drag competitions.
It started in 1991, when a smattering of gay adults — Disney obsessives all — used internet message boards to plan a gathering: Let’s buy tickets to Disney World’s Magic Kingdom theme park on the first Saturday in June and wear red shirts in a display of unity. The idea was to be unabashedly themselves (safety in numbers) amid the Disney masses and to send the message that they, too, belonged in the realm.
Gay Days hasn’t always gone smoothly. In the 1990s, soon after the event was established, some religious groups and conservative Disney World visitors viewed the red-shirt-wearing LGBTQ visitors as a moral affront. This year, Disney became entangled in a heated dispute with the governor of Florida, Ron DeSantis, over the state’s so-called “Don’t Say Gay” bill, which the chief executive of Disney denounced.
But last weekend, as “Let’s Go Fly a Kite” from “Mary Poppins” played on the loudspeakers, Gay Days participants streamed into Disney World to celebrate. Many of them wore red shirts with the words “SAY GAY” on the back, a reference to the recent controversy.
Go inside this year’s Gay Days with @nytimesfashion at the link in our bio. Photos by @simmonslr_

About 1.6 million people in the U.S. are transgender, and 43% of them are young adults or teenagers, according to a new report providing the most recent national estimates of this population.
The analysis, relying on CDC health surveys conducted from 2017 to 2020, estimated that 1.4% of 13- to 17-year-olds and 1.3% of 18- to 24-year-olds were transgender, compared with about 0.5% of all adults.
These new estimates point to a stark generational shift. Young people increasingly have the language and social acceptance to explore their gender identities, experts said, whereas older adults may feel more constrained. But the numbers, which vary widely from state to state, also raise questions about the roles of peer influence and the political climate of the community.
Tap the link in our bio to read more about the report.

More than a half-century after the landmark uprising at the Stonewall Inn in 1969 helped galvanize the fight for gay rights, the annual New York City Pride March has become an event of unapologetic jubilation. This year, the Supreme Court’s abortion ruling and the threat to gay rights cast an undeniable shadow over the celebration.
The parade took place on Sunday, just two days after theSupreme Court overturned the constitutional right to abortion and signaled that it might reconsider other liberties, including same-sex marriage.
Revelers on the sidelines and those in the march said on Sunday that the current state of affairs in the U.S. required renewed activism to maintain and expand civil rights for women and for people who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender.
In the wake of the decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, the organizers decided to place Planned Parenthood at the head of the event. Throughout the march, which headed down Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, the group led chants of “Rise up for abortion rights.”
“Pride has always gone back and forth between these two things: It’s a riot or a celebration,” said Cynthia Nixon, the actress and former candidate for governor of New York, who marched behind the Planned Parenthood group. “In more recent years, it’s been a celebration, but today it’s a protest.”
Tap the link in our bio to read more about this year’s New York City Pride March. Photos by @ddrios, @caitochs and @steffikeith

NYC Pride Marchers ‘Nervous’ After Court’s Abortion Ruling
Revelers at the annual New York City Pride March expressed concern about the future of gay rights after the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade.
Read more at the link in our bio.

Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida is expected to sign House Bill 1557, which supporters call the “Parental Rights in Education” bill, but which opponents refer to as the “Don’t Say Gay” bill. It has become a national lightning rod in recent weeks, with President Biden calling the legislation “hateful.”
Meanwhile, many conservatives have argued that the bill is limited in scope and has been misinterpreted by its critics.
All of that has obscured the text of the bill itself, which is complex — if at times vague — and is about much more than gay rights. It could have far-reaching implications for Florida children, potentially even those who have no connection to LGBTQ issues.
Language in the bill prohibits not only “instruction” around gender identity and sexual orientation, but also “classroom discussion” of these topics. “Classroom instruction” could mean eliminating books in the classroom with LGBTQ characters or historical figures. No “classroom discussion” is a broad phrase and could mean that teachers who have students with gay parents shouldn’t talk about such families with the entire class.
Other lines in the bill say that ​​schools would be required to notify parents when children receive mental, emotional or physical health services, unless educators believe there is a risk of “abuse, abandonment, or neglect.”
Swipe to see what’s in the Florida bill and tap the link in our bio to read a line-by-line reading of the bill’s most consequential language. Photo by Martha Asencio-Rhine/Tampa Bay Times, via @apnews