On Thursday, Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson was sworn in as the nation’s 116th Supreme Court justice, becoming the first Black woman to serve in that role. She replaced Justice Stephen Breyer, who retired.
“It has taken 232 years and 115 prior appointments for a Black woman to be selected to serve on the Supreme Court of the United States,” Justice Jackson said in April at a White House celebration after her confirmation. “But we’ve made it. We’ve made it. All of us.”
Tap the link in our bio to read more about Justice Jackson.

Gov. Kathy Hochul of New York cruised to a win in her Democratic primary on Tuesday, taking a crucial step toward winning a full term. She easily fended off two spirited primary challengers and cemented her status as the state’s top Democrat less than a year after she unexpectedly took office. The runaway victory by Hochul, the state’s first female governor, sets the stage for what could be a grueling general election contest against Representative Lee Zeldin (second photo), a conservative congressional ally of former President Donald Trump’s. Zeldin beat out three fellow Republicans in a gritty race for his party’s nomination.
When the race was called, Hochul had won 67% of the Democratic primary vote. Jumaane Williams, a left-leaning New York City public advocate, had won 20% of the vote, and Representative Thomas Suozzi, a Long Island moderate who ran an aggressively adversarial campaign focused on cutting crime and taxes, had won roughly 13% of the vote. Democratic voters also rewarded Hochul’s handpicked lieutenant governor and running mate, Antonio Delgado (third photo), who ran against Ana María Archila, a progressive activist aligned with Williams.
In other primaries across the U.S. on Tuesday, the biggest question was whether Democrats would be successful in guiding Republican voters to choose weak nominees for the general elections. In Illinois, Democrats’ biggest and most sustained investment succeeded, but in Colorado, Republicans chose candidates who didn’t have nominal primary support from across the aisle, setting up several general elections that are expected to be very competitive.
Primary elections and runoffs took place in Illinois, Colorado, New York, Oklahoma, Utah and Mississippi. Tap the link in our bio to read the biggest takeaways. Photos by @ddrios and @andrewseng

Former President Donald Trump continued pressuring former Vice President Mike Pence to go along with a plan to unilaterally overturn his election defeat even after he was told it was illegal, according to testimony laid out in extensive detail on Thursday by the House committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack.
The committee showed how Trump’s pressure campaign — aided by a little-known conservative lawyer, John Eastman — led his supporters to storm the Capitol, sending Pence fleeing for his life as rioters demanded his execution.
An angry mob with baseball bats and pepper spray chanting “hang Mike Pence” came within 40 feet of the vice president. Pence’s Secret Service detail had to hustle him to safety and hold him for nearly five hours in the bowels of the Capitol.
In the third public hearing this month to lay out its findings, the panel recounted how Trump’s actions brought the nation to the brink of a constitutional crisis, and raised fresh questions about whether they were also criminal.
Read more from the Jan. 6 committee hearings at the link in our bio.

Bill Barr, the former attorney general, testified that he believed former President Donald Trump had grown delusional as he insisted on pushing false claims of widespread election fraud that he had been told repeatedly were groundless, according to a videotaped interview played on Monday by the special committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack.
“He’s become detached from reality if he really believes this stuff,” Barr told the panel, adding, “There was never an indication of interest in what the actual facts were.”
In a hearing focused on the origins and spread of Trump’s lie of a stolen election, the panel played excerpts from Barr’s testimony, as well as from a chorus of campaign aides and administration officials who recounted how his claims of election irregularities were bogus.
Read live coverage from the committee’s hearing at the link in our bio.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson survived a dramatic no-confidence vote in Britain on Monday. The too-close-for-comfort result leaves him badly wounded and sets off a volatile period in British politics as he fights to stay in power and fend off potential challengers in his Conservative Party.
The vote, 211 to 148, fell short of the simple majority of Tory lawmakers needed to oust Johnson as party leader. But it laid bare how badly his support had hemorrhaged since last year, when a scandal erupted over reports that he and his aides had thrown parties at 10 Downing Street that violated the government’s lockdown rules.
Johnson vowed to stay on, arguing before the vote that it should put an end to months of speculation about his future. In an address to party members as they prepared to cast their ballots, he urged them to avoid a “pointless fratricidal debate about the future of the party.’’
In less than three years, Johnson has gone from being Britain’s most reliable vote-getter — a celebrity politician who redrew the country’s political map — to becoming a scandal-scarred figure. His job has been in peril since the first reports of illicit lockdown parties emerged last November.
Read the latest by tapping the link in our bio. Pool photo by Alberto Pezzali.

Former President Barack Obama returned to the White House on Tuesday to celebrate a new policy that expands coverage under the Affordable Care Act, his signature domestic policy achievement.
It was the first visit Obama had made since departing in January 2017.
But first, a buddy comedy act we’ve seen somewhere before. “Vice President Biden,” Obama said smoothly in the East Room, an introduction he insisted was a joke. It was then up to President Biden, who had served as Obama’s vice president, to show off the other role he had held under Obama for eight years: comedic foil. “Mr. President, welcome back to the White House, man,” he said. “Feels like the good old days.”
The visit gave Obama and Biden a moment or two to engage in the sort of light ribbing that appeared downright quaint by current Washington standards. No one engaged in any riffs about mental fitness. No one insulted anyone’s spouse. No one brought up racist babies. Instead, the moment was the briefest of diversions from the domestic and foreign policy quagmires surrounding the Biden White House. And no one seemed to appreciate that respite more than Biden, whose approval numbers are lagging.
Tap the link in our bio to read more about Obama’s visit and Biden’s new healthcare policy. Photo by @kenny_holston

Jeff Zucker resigned on Wednesday as the president of CNN and the chairman of WarnerMedia’s news and sports division, writing in a memo that he had failed to disclose to the company a romantic relationship with another senior executive at CNN.
Zucker, 56, is among the most powerful leaders in the American media and television industries. The abrupt end of his nine-year tenure immediately throws into flux the direction of CNN and its parent company, WarnerMedia, which is expected to be acquired later this year by Discovery Inc. in one of the nation’s largest media mergers.
In a memo to colleagues that was obtained by The New York Times, Zucker wrote that his relationship came up during a network investigation into the conduct of Chris Cuomo, the CNN anchor who was fired in December over his involvement in the political affairs of his brother, former Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York.
This is a developing story. Tap the link in our bio to read. Photo by Mike Coppola/Getty Images

When Angela Merkel became chancellor 16 years ago, George W. Bush was in the White House and Tony Blair was prime minister of Britain. There was no Twitter and no iPhone. Liberal democracy was in seemingly irreversible expansion, with the Orange Revolution having swept Ukraine.
On Wednesday, as Olaf Scholz, Merkel’s successor, takes over as chancellor, Twitter is a veritable tool of diplomacy, Russian troops are gathering on a divided Ukraine’s border, and democracy itself seems far less certain around the world.
In the intervening years, Merkel has stood up to President Vladimir Putin of Russia (even when he tried to intimidate her with his dog). She bonded with Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama and scolded President Donald Trump. She became an icon of hope for refugees and an object of scorn for populists the world over.
Now, her long political life appears to be coming to a close. Merkel, 67, was always clear that she wanted to leave office on her own terms and in her own time. “I want at some point to find the right time to quit politics,” she told Herlinde Koelbl, a German photographer, in 1998. “I don’t want to be a half-dead wreck.”
Tap the link in our bio for more images from the former chancellor’s 16 years leading Germany, and from her life before. Photos by Guido Bergmann/German Federal Government, via Reuters; Jesco Denzel/German Federal Government, via Reuters; Matthew Cavanaugh/EPA, via Shutterstock; Martin Gerten/Picture-Alliance, via @apnews; Axel Schmidt/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images; Stefanie Loos/@apnews

Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, husband of Queen Elizabeth II, father of Prince Charles and patriarch of a turbulent royal family that he sought to ensure would not be Britain’s last, died on Friday at Windsor Castle in England. He was 99.
His death was announced by Buckingham Palace, which said he passed away peacefully.
Philip had been hospitalized several times in recent years for various ailments, most recently in February after becoming unwell in relation to a pre-existing condition, the palace said. The queen and Prince Philip got their first doses of the coronavirus vaccine in January.
As “the first gentleman in the land,” Philip tried to shepherd into the 20th century a monarchy encrusted with the trappings of the 19th. But as pageantry was upstaged by scandal, as regal weddings were followed by sensational divorces, his mission, as he saw it, changed. It was to help preserve the crown itself.
Philip occupied a peculiar place on the world stage as the husband of a queen whose powers were largely ceremonial. He was essentially a second-fiddle figurehead, accompanying her on royal visits and sometimes standing in for her.
And yet he embraced his royal role as a job to be done. “We have got to make this monarchy thing work,” he was reported to have said.
Tap the link in our bio to read our obituary of the Duke of Edinburgh. Pool photo of Prince Philip in 2011 by Carl Court.

an Andrew Yang make it in New York City politics?
Yang, who dropped out of the presidential race in February, has name recognition, fund-raising ability and some different ideas on how to run a government. But it’s unclear how that will play in a city ravaged by the pandemic.
For much of his career — he has a mixed record of success in the nonprofit and start-up worlds — Yang has plainly been absent from New York politics. The father of a son with autism, Yang also acknowledged that he has not remained in New York City full time since the pandemic began, which Politico reported on Friday. Instead, he has been spending time with his family in upstate New York.
“We live in a two-bedroom apartment in Manhattan,” he said. “And so, like, can you imagine trying to have two kids on virtual school in a two-bedroom apartment, and then trying to do work yourself?”
Yang is still every bit the unorthodox contender, and that approach offers him both opportunities and monumental challenges in the race to lead New York out of a pandemic-fueled crisis. His candidacy — which may be officially announced as early as this week — would offer a clear test of whether New Yorkers want a splashy but inexperienced contender with bold ideas for navigating the city’s recovery, or whether a mood of citywide emergency propels a more familiar local figure with a traditional governing background. Tap the link in our bio to read more. @tamirhasacellphone took this photo in February 2020.

The Queen has arrived in Edinburgh with members of her family for the start of a week of royal events in Scotland.
She was joined by her youngest son, Prince Edward, and his wife, Sophie, for a traditional ceremony opening the Royal  Ceremony of the Keys on the forecourt of the Palace of Holyroodhouse's Holyrood week.
The 96-year-old has mobility issues and the decision to travel to Edinburgh was only confirmed this morning.
She has cut back on engagements recently and was last seen in public during the Platinum Jubilee.
Tap the link in our bio to see more from the ceremony.

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said he’s introducing a “national freeze” on handgun sales in his country.

North Korean president Kim Jong-un has attended the funeral of a top military official not wearing a mask, despite a Covid outbreak in the country.
State-run television has shown the funeral ceremony with the North Korean leader carrying the coffin of Hyon Chol Hae.
As more than two million people have become sick with what the country's officials call "fever," North Korea has advised people to always wear a mask, and in some cases, two.

Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi called for the EU integration process to be sped up in order to better tackle crises during today's This is Europe debate in Strasbourg.

how dangerous it can be for journalists to keep us informed and defend press freedom. Find out what the European Parliament is doing to protect journalists and their work 
Parliament's late president David Sassoli was a public servant, not just as an elected official but as a journalist.
To honour his work and memory, Parliament is launching a new training programme and scholarship scheme for young journalists. It will bear his name and reiterate Parliament's unwavering commitment to supporting pluralist, independent and free media as an essential part of a democratic society.
"Protecting and supporting journalists is in the vital interest of democratic societies," Sassoli said in 2021, speaking at the award ceremony for the Daphne Caruana Galizia Prize for Journalism.
"What makes us a model is not moral perfection. It is the fact that we have rules and mechanisms that allow us to control those in power, reveal wrongdoings and strive to be better, and one of the most powerful such mechanism is independent and critical journalism."

Jubilant supporters have celebrated Emmanuel Macron’s election win at the foot of the Eiffel Tower.
He has won five more years as France's president after a convincing victory over rival Marine Le Pen, who nevertheless secured the far right's highest share of the vote yet.
The centrist leader won by 58.55% to 41.45%, a greater margin than expected.
He is the first sitting president in 20 years to be re-elected and told supporters he would be a "president for all".
Despite her loss, Ms Le Pen said her significant vote share still marked a victory.