Visually impaired photographer Roesie Percy will be covering the Women’s Boat race on Sunday for The Times.
The young photographer (@a_blind_photographer) describes her work as “very ironic”, as she cannot see the details in her own photography. Roesie, however, looks for shapes and focuses on bold colours in her work.
Roesie writes (of image one): “As a photographer, I believe that if you want to get that perfect shot, you need to do things that most people wouldn’t even think of doing. So I put my wellies on so I could get into the water to photograph those unique moments instead of seeing the obvious pictures.”
Swipe to see more of Roesie’s work

Divided, distracted and desperate to play golf!
Simon Wilde reveals in the inside story of England’s Ashes humiliation. Click the link in our bio to read his detailed report.

It’s nearly time. The Ashes are nearly upon us and as we look forward to another classic contest, Marc Aspland looks back at a famous test in 2010 as England and Australia draw at The Gabba. Click the link to see his special gallery of unique photos.

One. More. Race. Lewis Hamilton celebrates winning the Saudi Arabia Grand Prix, beating Max Verstappen to set up a winner takes all final race next weekend in Abu Dhabi.
Click the link in our bio to read all the latest reports and reaction to one of the most thrilling races ever.

She did it! Emma Raducanu is US Open champion! Stuart Fraser is in New York to witness one of the most astonishing stories in sport get a fairytale ending

From Sky Brown to Katarina Johnson-Thompson there’s been both joy and heartbreak for Team GB in Tokyo. Keep up to date with all the latest action and analysis by clicking the link in our bio.

He’s back! Manchester United have confirmed that Cristiano Ronaldo is on his way back to the club in one of the most astonishing transfers of the summer. Click the link in our bio to read the latest from Paul Hirst and Pol Ballus

t was a great end to the first full week of the Olympics as Max Whitlock and Charlotte Worthington both won gold for Great Britain. What will week two hold? Keep up to date with all the best analysis and reaction by clicking the link in our bio.

You wait all weekend for an Olympic Gold and then three come along at once!
Congratulations to Adam Peaty, Tom Daley, Matty Lee and Tom Pidcock as they triumphed in Tokyo. Click the link in our bio to read the latest reports and insight from our team at The Games.

After the delays and doubts the Tokyo Olympics are finally here. Use the link in our bio to follow all the reports, analysis and insight on the latest action from our team at the Games.

Congratulations to our photographer Bradley Ormesher who has been named Sports Photographer of the Year at the 2020 Press Awards, winning for these three stunning images. Every week Brad and Marc Aspland present their Unseen gallery online so keep an eye out!

Heartbroken. Raheem Sterling consoles Jordan Pickford after England lost the Euro 2020 final on penalties. Pickford saved two but it wasn’t enough. Click the link in our bio to read the latest insight and analysis on what next for England and Gareth Southgate.

What. A. Game. Delight for Italy as they reach the final of Euro 2020. Despair for Spain as they lose on penalties. Click the link in our bio to read Matt Dickinson’s report on a thrilling game.

Hands up who’s in the final of Euro 2020! Harry Kane scored the winner to set up a Wembley clash with Italy on Sunday. Click the link in our bio to read the latest insight and analysis from Henry Winter, Matt Lawton, Jonny Northcroft and more.

Manchester City will aim to win their first Champions League trophy this weekend. After claiming the Premier League title earlier this month, Paul Hirst and Pol Ballus wrote about the changes Pep Guardiola has made at the club this season. Click the link in our bio to read the piece.

“It is my first world-class race and these are women I’ve literally grown up watching” - American sprinter Sha’Carri Richardson tells Matt Lawton about preparing to face Dina Asher-Smith and her hopes for Olympic glory. Click the link in our bio to read the interview.

During #euro2020 you can listen to daily shows from The Game podcast with insight and analysis from our pundits and journalists. In our final preview show Jose Mourinho joined the team to pick out some of the potential stats for the tournament. Click the link in our bio to listen to the show and subscribe.

Ready to fly: In 2018 Katie Ormerod broke her heel and in turn shattered her Olympic dream. She tells Rebecca Myers why she’s ready to make up for lost time as she prepares for Beijing 2022. Click the link in our bio to read the interview.

It was a thrilling battle but England produced an excellent display to narrowly beat France in the Six Nations. Click the link in our bio to read Stephen Jones’ report.

oe Root was back to his authoritative best in England’s first test against Sri Lanka, reaching his century on day two. Click the link in our bio to read Steve James’s analysis of the England captain’s performance.

Adam Peaty is already the 100m breaststroke world record holder but he tells Matt Dickinson he’s not finished making swimming history. Click the link in our bio to read the piece.

Outrageous, rebellious, fearless - he lived football’s most epic life’
Matt Dickinson pays tribute to Diego Maradona. To read the piece click the link in our bio.

Times sport photographers @marc.aspland & @bradley.ormesher are at @wimbledon catching the highs, lows and everything inbetween. Daily gallery on app and website.
📸 Marc Aspland & Bradley Ormesher 

Victory parade in Boston after New England Patriots win the LIII Super Bowl

To coincide with the #6nations rugby we are posting Times photographer Marc Aspland's favourite pictures of the tournament from over the years, full gallery in app and on site now.