Scaled for a smaller crowd and easy enough for weeknights, these festive Passover recipes will become part of your regular rotation.
The meal that follows is a bit like Thanksgiving in the sense that certain dishes, like matzo ball soup and gefilte fish, are nonnegotiable. But there are other parts of the menu that can be tweaked. And what a good year to try something new and perhaps a bit more exciting than the usual.
📸 In this roasted chicken dish, dried apricots and green olives contribute their sweet and sour notes to add real verve.
📸 A whole roasted cauliflower is incredibly easy and delightfully showstopping. A bright, punchy cilantro and pistachio pesto slathered on top brings freshness and even more color.
📸 If you are a savory matzo brei person, you will adore this matzo frittata packed with jammy caramelized onions and mushrooms.
📸 Making tsimmes needn’t be a big fuss. Pop some halved sweet potatoes in the oven to roast and stir up a simple but lip-smacking glaze full of citrus, ginger, honey and prunes to pour over before serving.
📸 These perfect coconut macaroons, along with some strawberries and perhaps some medjool dates, are dessert enough. They’re the ideal finger foods to eat while reclining with those you love.

Puttanesca is a sauce that plies its trade all year round, with ingredients — pantry staples like anchovies, garlic and olives — ready whenever the desire strikes. But this puttanesca from @clarkbar takes advantage of spring greens, using fat green garlic cloves and baby spinach to lend a pungent verdancy to a tried-and-true dish. If green garlic isn’t available, use regular, but use less. It will be equally delicious. Photo by @linda.xiao, with food styling by @monicapierini

With spring on the way, this recipe for mushroom and wild rice soup may be our last winter indulgence.
Making creamy soups in a slow cooker can be tricky because it’s not possible to simmer them with the top off and reduce the liquid. But good news: @sarahedigregorio kindly made two versions of her soup, one for the slow cooker and another for the Instant Pot, making it a weeknight possibility.
Use any variety of mushrooms you like: Cremini (also called baby bella) are affordable and easy to find and work well, or you can add shiitake or oyster mushrooms for a mix of texture and flavors.
This recipe uses wild rice, which isn’t a true rice at all but the seed of a grass that’s native to North America. When it’s cooked, it should be pleasantly chewy and nutty, not hard, and most of the grains should be slightly split open to reveal their creamy insides.

This avocado salad with herbs and capers from @clarkbar is dead simple to make and wonderfully luscious. It is enlivened by a splash of red wine vinegar in the dressing and a handful of briny capers sprinkled on top. The herbs here are used in two ways, both chopped into a garlicky salsa verde-like dressing, and strewn in whole leaves across the plate.
Choose your avocados carefully, though. Look for firm but not rock-hard fruit, without any mushy spots. If you’d like to substitute another variety of avocado for the Hass you can, but the salad may not have the same texture. It’s great as a side dish or an appetizer. Or make it the foundation of a light lunch, with some crusty bread and tangy cheese on the side. You’ll think spring has arrived!

If you miss going to the diner, this tuna melt can help recreate the experience. @lideylikes’s recipe adds chopped cornichons and whole-grain mustard for a satisfying crunch and vinegary element. Extra-sharp Cheddar is a must, and as with grilled cheese, the key to achieving perfectly melted cheese and golden bread is to toast the sandwich over medium-low heat. Tap the link in our bio to get the recipe from @nytcooking. Photo by @conpoulos, with food styling by @jerriejoy
Food trends come and go, but a bowl of birria with warm corn tortillas will never lose its appeal.
Birria, a regional stew from Mexico, has recently exploded in popularity in the U.S., as a soupy style made with beef, popularized by birria vendors in Tijuana. The chef Josef Centeno, who grew up eating beef and goat birria in Texas, makes a delicious, thickly sauced version based on his Grandma Alice’s recipe, mixing up the proteins by using oxtail, lamb on the bone and even tofu (you can, too). Preparing the adobo takes time, as does browning the meat, but it’s worth it for the deep flavors in the final dish. The best way to serve birria is immediately and simply, in a bowl, with some warm corn tortillas.

As far as finger foods go, @alexaweibel’s arancini are right up there with the best of them. This recipe employs a simple base of Parmesan risotto that is chilled, rolled, breaded and fried. Serve them with warm tomato sauce or even pesto.

For Lunar New Year, try making @genevieve_ko's dumplings two ways: savory, crunchy chile crisp dumplings and sweet, sesame-filled tang yuan floating in ginger soup. Get both recipes from @nytcooking.

There’s nothing more satisfying for breakfast than a warm, chewy bagel. And good news: They are easy to make at home.
@nytcooking has a handy guide to making perfect bagels. It explains everything, from mixing to forming, boiling to baking. The result is a traditionally chewy, crusty bagel that’s far fresher and tastier than those puffy dough rings from your average store. This recipe yields a dozen, and you’ll want to reserve an afternoon and the next morning to complete the process, making it an ideal weekend project.

 does is delicious and these cheesy cauliflower toasts are no exception. Adapted from her 2018 cookbook, “Cook Like a Pro,” they are a bit like open-face grilled cheese sandwiches, but with a nutty layer of roasted cauliflower, and spiked with nutmeg and paprika. We made it vegetarian by leaving out the prosciutto, and also lightened up on the cheese. 

commenter may sum this recipe up best: “Fantastic. One of the best cakes I can remember making." ⁣
@samanthaseneviratne's Earl Grey tea cake has loose tea leaves stirred into buttery batter, adding a sweet, floral essence that’s subtle but lovely. A little dark chocolate and orange zest makes this cake extra special. While you could use chocolate chips, using chocolate chopped from a bar produces the best result: The varying sizes of chopped chocolate blend in nicely without overpowering the delicate tea flavor.⁣

This meat-free dish is a version of aglio e olio pasta, often known as midnight pasta because it can be made quickly with a few pantry staples: garlic, olive oil, red-pepper flakes and pasta. It can take a bit more time because it calls for roasting the garlic first, but doing so adds a complex, mellow flavor to the entire dish. 

These crowd-pleasing sweets start with a dense, chewy brownie that’s topped with a layer of creamy peppermint filling, dark chocolate glaze and a sprinkle of crushed peppermints. For the cleanest slices, chill the finished brownies thoroughly, then use a warm knife to slice them. Dip the knife blade into hot water and wipe it dry with a kitchen towel between each cut, and you’ll be rewarded with clean layers of chocolate, peppermint and glaze.

@nytcooking’s 50 most popular vegetarian recipes of 2020 — including this mushroom Bourguignon-style stew simmered with pearl onions, wine and carrots by @clarkbar — are a great way to kick off the new year. Photo by @dmalosh, with food styling by @simoncooks.

These Lemon Sweet Rolls With Cream Cheese Icing from @yossyarefi are a fresh alternative to classic cinnamon rolls, perfect for a long holiday weekend.

This dough is adaptable: You can let the dough rise in the refrigerator, instead of at room temperature, so you can serve fresh, warm rolls for breakfast without getting up at the crack of dawn to make them.

Caramelized and crunchy on the outside, soft and custardy on the inside, these thick sourdough slices taste like the lovechild of bread pudding and French toast. You want a round or oblong loaf large enough for big pieces and soft enough to absorb the custard. It’s easy to caramelize the French toast in the oven, but the timing depends on your oven and pan, so check it frequently to ensure that it’s burnished but not burned. These are perfect for a snow day! 

If one could eat the smell of Christmas/winter, this is what it would taste like,” wrote one of the commenters on @nytcooking’s recipe for this slow cooker sticky toffee pudding. It isn't so much a pudding in the American sense, but a baked or steamed British date cake. @sarahedigregorio uses espresso powder in the cake and sauce to balance the honeyed taste of the dates and brown sugar — 
