On Thursday, Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson was sworn in as the nation’s 116th Supreme Court justice, becoming the first Black to serve in that role. She replaced Justice Stephen Breyer, who retired.
“It has taken 232 years and 115 prior appointments for a Black to be selected ” 

Gov. Kathy Hochul cruised to a win in her Democratic primary on Tuesday, taking a crucial step toward winning a full term. She easily fended off two spirited primary challengers and cemented her status as the state’s top Democrat less than a year after she unexpectedly took office. The runaway victory by Hochul, the state’s first female governor, sets the stage for what could be a grueling general election contest against Representative Lee Zeldin , a conservative congressional ally of former President Donald Trump’s. Zeldin beat out three fellow Republicans in a gritty race for his party’s nomination.
When the race was called, Hochul had won 67% of the Democratic primary vote. Jumaane Williams, a left-leaning New York City public advocate, had won 20% of the vote, and Representative Thomas Suozzi, a Long Island moderate who ran an aggressively adversarial campaign focused on cutting crime and taxes, had won roughly 13% of the vote. Democratic voters also rewarded Hochul’s handpicked lieutenant governor and running mate, Antonio Delgado (third photo), who ran against Ana María Archila, a progressive activist aligned with Williams.
In other primaries across the U.S. on Tuesday, the biggest question was whether Democrats would be successful in guiding Republican voters to choose weak nominees for the general elections. In Illinois, Democrats’ biggest and most sustained investment succeeded, but in Colorado, Republicans chose candidates who didn’t have nominal primary support from across the aisle, setting up several general elections that are expected to be very competitive.

Former President Donald Trump continued pressuring former Vice President Mike Pence to go along with a plan to unilaterally overturn his election defeat even after he was told it was illegal, according to testimony laid out in extensive detail on Thursday by the House committee investigating 
The committee showed how Trump’s pressure campaign — aided by a little-known conservative lawyer, John Eastman — led his supporters to storm the Capitol, sending Pence fleeing for his life as rioters demanded his execution.
An angry mob with baseball bats and spray chanting “hang Mike Pence” came within 40 feet of the vice president. Pence’s Secret Service detail had to hustle him to safety and hold him for nearly five hours in the bowels of the Capitol.
In the third public hearing this month to lay out its findings, the panel recounted how Trump’s actions brought the nation to the brink of a constitutional crisis, and raised fresh questions about 

Bill Barr, the former attorney general, testified that he believed former President Donald Trump had grown delusional as he insisted on pushing false claims of widespread election fraud that he had been told repeatedly were groundless
“He’s become detached from reality if he really believes this stuff,” Barr told the panel, adding, “There was never an indication of interest in what the actual facts were.”
In a hearing focused on the origins and spread of Trump’s lie of a stolen election, the panel played excerpts from Barr’s testimony, as well as from a chorus of campaign aides and administration officials who recounted how his claims of election irregularities were bogus.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson survived a dramatic no-confidence vote in Britain. The too-close-for-comfort result leaves him badly wounded and sets off a volatile period in British politics as he stay in power and fend off potential challengers in his Conservative Party.
The vote, 211 to 148, fell short of the simple majority of Tory lawmakers needed to oust Johnson as party leader. But it laid bare how badly his support had hemorrhaged since last year, when a scandal erupted over reports that he and his aides had thrown parties at 10 Downing Street that violated the government’s lockdown rules.
Johnson vowed to stay on, arguing before the vote that it should put an end. In an address to party members as they prepared to cast their ballots, he urged them to avoid a “pointless fratricidal debate about the party.’’
In less than three years, Johnson has gone from being Britain’s most reliable vote-getter — a celebrity politician who redrew the country’s political map — to becoming a scandal-scarred figure. His job has been in peril since the first reports of illicit parties emerged last November.

Former President Barack Obama returned  to celebrate a new policy that expands coverage under the Affordable Care Act, his signature domestic policy achievement.
It was the first visit Obama had made since departing in January 2017.
But first, a buddy comedy act we’ve seen somewhere before. “Vice President Biden,” Obama said smoothly in the East Room, an introduction he insisted was a joke. It was then up to President Biden, who had served as Obama’s vice president, to show off the other role he had held under Obama for eight years: comedic foil. “Mr. President, welcome back to the White House, man,” he said. “Feels like the good old days.”
The visit gave Obama and Biden a moment or two to engage in the sort of light ribbing that appeared downright quaint by current Washington standards. Instead, the moment was the briefest of diversions from the domestic and foreign policy quagmires surrounding the Biden White House. And no one seemed to appreciate that respite more than Biden, whose approval numbers are lagging.

Jeff Zucker resigned on Wednesday as the president of CNN and the chairman of WarnerMedia’s news , writing in a memo that he had failed to disclose to the company a romantic relationship with another senior executive at CNN.
Zucker, 56, is among the most powerful leaders in the media and television industries. The abrupt end of his nine-year tenure immediately throws into flux the direction of CNN and its parent company, WarnerMedia, which is expected to be acquired later this year by Discovery Inc. in one of the nation’s largest media mergers.
In a memo to colleagues that was obtained by The New York Times, Zucker wrote that his relationship came up during a network investigation into the conduct of Chris Cuomo, the CNN anchor who was fired in December over his involvement in the political affairs of his brother, former Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York.

When Angela Merkel became chancellor 16 years ago, George W. Bush was in the White House and Tony Blair was prime minister of Britain. There was no Twitter and no iPhone. Liberal democracy was in seemingly irreversible expansion, with the Orange Revolution .
On Wednesday, as Olaf Scholz, Merkel’s successor, takes over as chancellor, Twitter is a veritable tool of diplomacy
In the intervening years, Merkel has stood up to Vladimir Putin. She bonded with Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama and scolded President Donald Trump. She became an icon of hope for refugees and an object of scorn for populists the world over.
Now, her long political life appears to be coming to a close. Merkel, 67, was always clear that she wanted to leave office on her own terms and in her own time. “I want at some point to find the right time to quit politics,” she told Herlinde Koelbl, a German photographer, in 1998. “I don’t want to be a half-dead wreck.”

Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, husband of Queen Elizabeth II, father of Prince Charles and patriarch of a turbulent royal that he sought to ensure would not be Britain’s last, died on Friday at Windsor Castle in England. He was 99.
Philip had been hospitalized several times in recent years for various ailments The queen and Prince Philip  Philip tried to shepherd into the 20th century a monarchy encrusted with the trappings of the 19th. But as pageantry was upstaged by scandal, as regal weddings were followed by sensational divorces, his mission, as he saw it, changed. It was to help preserve the crown itself.
Philip occupied a peculiar place on the world stage as the husband of a queen whose powers were largely ceremonial. He was essentially a second-fiddle figurehead, accompanying her on royal visits and sometimes standing in for her.
And yet he embraced his royal role as a job to be done. “We have got to make this monarchy thing work,” he was reported to have said.

an Andrew Yang make it in politics?
Yang, who dropped out of the presidential race in February, has name recognition, fund-raising ability and some different ideas on how to run a government. 
For much of his career — he has a mixed record of success in the nonprofit and start-up worlds — 
Yang is still every bit the unorthodox contender, and that approach offers him both opportunities and monumental challenges in the race to lead New York out. His candidacy — which may be officially announced as early as this week — would offer a clear test of whether New Yorkers want a splashy but inexperienced contender with bold ideas for navigating the city’s recovery, or whether a mood of citywide propels a more familiar local figure with a traditional governing background. 

The Queen has arrived in Edinburgh with members of her family for the start of a week of royal events in Scotland.
She was joined by her youngest son, Prince Edward, and his wife, Sophie, for a traditional ceremony opening the Royal  Ceremony of the Keys on the forecourt of the Palace of Holyroodhouse's Holyrood week.
The 96-year-old has mobility issues and the decision to travel to Edinburgh was only confirmed this morning.
She has cut back on engagements recently and was last seen in public during the Platinum Jubilee.

North Korean president Kim Jong-un has attended the funeral of a top military official not wearing a mask, 
State-run television has shown the funeral ceremony with the North Korean leader carrying the coffin of Hyon Chol Hae.
 North Korea has advised people to always wear a mask, and in some cases, two.

Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi called for the EU integration process to be sped up in order to better tackle crises during today's This is Europe debate in Strasbourg.

how dangerous it can be for journalists to keep us informed and defend press freedom. Find out what the European Parliament is doing to protect journalists and their work 
Parliament's late president David Sassoli was a public servant, not just as an elected official but as a journalist.
To honour his work and memory, Parliament is launching a new training programme and scholarship scheme for journalists. It will bear his name and reiterate Parliament's unwavering commitment to supporting pluralist, independent and free media as an essential part of a democratic society.
"Protecting and supporting journalists is in the vital interest of democratic societies," Sassoli said in 2021, speaking at the award ceremony for the Daphne Caruana Galizia Prize for Journalism.
"What makes us a model is not moral perfection. It is the fact that we have rules and mechanisms that allow us to control those in power, reveal wrongdoings and strive to be better, and one of the most powerful such mechanism is independent and critical journalism."

Jubilant supporters have celebrated Emmanuel Macron’s election win at the foot of the Eiffel Tower.
He has won five more years as France's president after a convincing victory over rival Marine Le Pen, who nevertheless secured the far right's highest share of the vote yet.
The centrist leader won by 58.55% to 41.45%, a great er margin than expected.
He is the first sitting president in 20 years to be re-elected and told supporters he would be a "president for all".
Despite her loss, Ms Le Pen said her significant vote share still marked a victory.